---
title: "Working From Home: A Guide for 2020"
date: 2020-11-24
draft: true
tags: [life]
---

Many of us are stuck at home, whether we like it or not. Here are my tips on how
to survive this. Recommended to anyone working on computers.

<!--more-->

## Introduction

I had already been working from home for about a year before the pandemic hit. I
  am relatively introverted, I enjoyed the flexibility that a home office
  allowed. Despite this, I am taking the pandemic worse than I thought I would.
However the habits I built up during the time working remotely have helped me.

**Disclaimer**:
Now naturally my advice may not work for everyone. I think everyone needs to
come up with solutions for themselves.
My circumstances are also not as tough they could be and I realize I am more
privileged than many. I am in my 20s, I don't have children, I live together
with my wonderful partner, and I have a very flexible schedule as a developer.
These make coping with current circumstances significantly easier. Therefore
this advice cannot possibly cover everyone's situation.

What follows is a list of my observations, roughly in order of importance.

## Socializing

If you live in a place where there is a total lockdown and you're someone who
needs regular social interaction, this is difficult. What you can do is schedule
online gatherings. Sure, sharing a pint over a zoom call is not the same, but
it's still significantly better than nothing.

What I noticed is that it is easy to fall into lethargy, at least for me. It
takes more effort to communicate and organize things online. I noticed this in
my job too: my team and I mostly only communicate when there is something
related to work.

Call your friends or family and start a video call.

## Health

One of the consequences of getting stuck at home is becoming incredibly lazy, to
the point of lethargy. This is not good for the body nor the mind.

Then, and this is purely anecdotal (although there is TODO: ted talk), but I
found that my health takes a toll more easily when my social needs are not met.
So maintaining one's health becomes more important than usual.

On how exactly to do this is out of scope for this article, but regular
exercising, good food and sleep are key. Eat enough proteins and healthy fats,
cut back on sugar (and processed food in general), exercise every second day,
stretch your calves and back, try to maintain a healthy sleep cycle. You should
be okay.

I do body-weight workout and the one-off yoga exercise for stretching.

## Work life balance

At first it's probably exhilerating to have complete freedom over one's schedule
(that is, if one's work schedule allows). However, unless one has willpower made
of cement, this will quickly derail one's days: biorhythm goes on a spin,
days become nights, memories fade together... Bad stuff.

Some people have struggle maintaining a healthy balance between work and
personal life. No matter to which side the scale tips, having a flexible but
firm schedule is thus important. You need to experiment what works best for you.
Allowing buffer zones for errors in execution is critical, as is having
scheduled downtime.

For some it is especially difficult to get the work-day started. For others it
is more difficult to stop. I had both. One of the reasons people prefer working
in the office is the clear separation of work and personal life resulting from
commuting to and fro.
By default this is missing from WFH but one can create such rituals for
oneself. Getting dressed (including putting on shoes) is one such example,
taking a walk around the block (if allowed) before and after work (to simulate
heading out) is another. Experiment with what works for you.

## Focus

Somewhat related to the above, it is sometimes difficult to not get distracted
by all the things at home. Conversely, it may actually be really difficult to
stop what one is doing, because there are no coworkers to invite you on a lunch
or coffee break.

I found the [pomodoro method](TODO) to work well for these cases. The principle
is simple: one sets a timer for 25 minutes during which one must focus. Then a
5 minutes break ensures (or however much one sets). Then repeat.

The important aspect of pomodoro is not only that it helps you focus on work, it
also helps you to _go on breaks_. This is crucial. In fact, I take it to the
extreme and after about 4 hour work, I sometimes take a 2 hour break before I
plop down for the second 4 hour block, either working out or doing some other
non-computer related hobby. It recharges me, I'm more rested, and thus I'm also
more productive afterwards.

## Personal example

I have experimented with many schedules. One of my problems was that no matter
when I started the day, I seemed to work till 7-8pm. If I started early, this
meant 10-12 hour days. This burns you out quickly.

Because I seemed determined to work till the evening anyway, as a workaroudn I
decided to simply push my afternoon to the morning.

My days roughly look as follows:
1. get up around 7-8am
2. Have breakfast and do a hobby (read, work on a math exercise, watch videos,
draw, etc)
3. Around 11 or 11.30am, join the daily standup, officially kicking off the day.
   That's my "ritual" to start the workday.
4. Some hours later I stop for a lunch break. Every other day I work out in the
   nearby park for about 45m and cook something quick for lunch. On these days I
   work about 1h longer. It is flexible when I go, but the point is to exercise
   and have longer breaks.
5. Work till around 8pm.
6. I still have some time to do my own things or spend it with my partner or
   friends online. The takeaway is that at this point I've already had a
   fulfilling day since I did both my own things in the morning as well as good
   work. On most days anyway...

I hope that gives you some ideas :)
